I have a lot of stuff to be found out. Our problems
run from adoption of babies and alcoholism all the
way through the alphabet, clear down the
wheelchairs and things of that sort. Are most of
your problems with the blacks? No. Blacks have
Latin. I would say that approximately 60% were
blacks, another 20% or so were Anglos, and another
20% were Lesbians. Anglos. Where do you get most of
your volunteers from? Housewives and retirees.
Are the retirees good volunteers? Oh, yeah. Yeah,
it's just remarkable. There's a man out here, he
had a house that you could set this in his backyard.
And two stories. And he must be, must have all the
money that he's ever going to use and some more
beside. and yet he is one of the best roadrunners we
got. Call him up and he's out just out today on a
little side street called Military Street up here
in North Bryan taking a woman to a doctor and uh it
runs all all the way from uh
of course in people it it there's practically no no
no stratification there they're all all retirees
and whether they're just on call. One case that I
thought was quite interesting was a boy who was
graduating from Allen School. And he had a
football scholarship to one of the colleges. And
his mother was working. But she'd had an
automobile accident. And she had fallen behind on
his tuition. And he had to have his grades by a
certain date to get his scholarship. And they
would not release his grades until his tuition had
been paid. And she had no car even to make a loan. And
so she came to Bible what to do and how to do. And it
was a case of talking to her employer a little bit.
Yeah, he said, why didn't you come to me? He said, of
course, I'll let her have the money and she could
work it out out of her salary. So that was solved.
But this Junior Museum, I'm treasurer of it.
manage have a great many duties in connection with
keeping it going like hammer and saw and and the
screwdriver and things of that sort and I'm very
fond of it because I think that we do instill into
these kids some little bit of scientific
knowledge and respect for their environment and
respect for nature and I'm sure that in some cases
We have pointed some of them to A&M, and they've
gone, of course, plus their high school and all the
other things they acquired. But we have helped
them in ways, in their thinking, orient, and I'm
hopeful or feel quite sure that sooner or later
we'll have fed into A&M quite a number of the kids.
with the museum with the youngsters way back
before he had to go to the hospital because he got
some cards from the little boys that he had helped
them solve a problem of moving materials. I took a
bunch of 10 kids, limited to 10, I wanted to be
anywhere from 9 to 11 but I had one boy about 12 or 12
and a half and we had a chunk of concrete out of a road
but about as big as a fourth of this floor area, one
chunk of concrete and the kids learned something
about levers, block and tackle and ropes and
hitches and We just moved that thing all over the
area. We got it up on skids first, then we put
rollers under it, we moved it around, and we
determined its weight by calculation. I had
another chunk of the same, broken off the same
piece, so I determined its density. And having
found the area and the thickness of the chunk, it
had its volume. But if you have the volume and the
density, you have the weight. So we calculated the
weight of it, 1,970 pounds. We got that up on skids
and rollers. That's a really marvelous practical
experience. You can look at it in a textbook and it
just doesn't quite... Yeah, and those kids had fun
because we used two-by-sixes as levers, you know.
And they'd get an end of that under there and first
thing, they didn't have enough support under the
fulcrum. So they learned something about that.
Then they got too short a bite and they broke the
two-for-six off. So they learned an awful lot of
things about that. And then I took it up on a hill
intentionally so that a couple of them could move
it on rollers just by pulling on it. Up that hill,
they couldn't begin to take it up that hill, so I got
the block and tackled. And I had equivalent to 11
lines up. 11, that's quite a lot of power, 11 times
what you're pulling. And, uh... He went over to the
hardware store and borrowed some gear. Oh, I got
bummed. I needed to know how much we were pulling.
So I got one of these scales they used for weighing
bales of cotton, you know, about the 500 pounds.
And I put that in the line so when the kids pulled, I
knew how many pounds they were pulling. We rolled
it up that hill, rolled it up that slope. It took
every kid and all my block power to roll it up that
hill. They could do it. They could do it, just could
do it. They learned it, they learned an awful lot
and she said I was sick and one of the boys sent me a
get well card. I've talked to different classes on
rocks and minerals and things like that. Yeah, in
my petroleum engineering courses, geology was a
very strong subject. In the early days of
petroleum engineering, we did practically all of
our geology on the surface, geology. So geology
had to play an important part and of course it would
not be complete without of course the mineralogy.
So all the rest of my lifetime I've been gathering,
collecting minerals and rocks and so on. Since
I've retired I've got together the equipment for
cutting and polishing and shaping and stuff of
that sort. So that's the other thing that I do with
it. You still collect? Oh yeah, collect all the
time. You go out? Yeah, rock trips, I really,
that's the real fun of it. We can get more people out
on a rock trip than any place else, any other.
Meetings, that's something else, but rock trips,
that's something else. Could you tell me some of
the people that are involved with your community
council, some of the people that are doing the
work, so we might have a record of it? Well, the
retiring president was H. Hugh Island. He's head
of the, what's now the Twin City Mission. He was,
but the presidents have been, the first president
was Bill Vance, who's now county judge, and
then... How many people are on this council? Oh,
there's about 12 or 15 in the board of directors.
Are they appointed? Yeah, they're appointed.
They're elected, rather, by the membership. The
membership consists of the various
organizations and the personnel of the various
organizations and interested citizens. And we
have a membership schedule of dues and so on, and
the membership elects the directors, and the
directors elect the officers. and
the president was one of the leading people, one of
the real starters, and the man that would be a real
candidate for getting a lot of A&M history,
because he's a guy that starts things. His name is
H.G. Kanagy, and of course everybody calls him
Andy because they were the famous Andy Kanagy,
although he spells it differently. He spells it
with a K. But Andy was the one who started an
organization of social services, and it fell
through, and that's what gave me the clue that it
had to have some activity. So when we started the
Braddock County Community Council, I said we've
got to have some way to hold it together and some
activity And that's the way it turned out because
there was a few years there we had presidents that
were absolutely uninterested in what we were
doing. And the only thing that held it together was
our activity, the information for a while. But
Andy was a starter. Andy started action with Earl
Rudder in connection with the A&M Retirees Club.
He wrote the first letters and had the first
communication with Earl Rudder. and Andy was one
of the three starters in the community council,
and he's one of these fellows that likes to start
things and turn them over, and I like to think that
Andy started the community council, but I kept it
going, but
then there was Bill Oxley, a preacher up here at the
St. Thomas, Harold Wells, who was a preacher at the
First Presbyterian Church, those were the
presidents, and now we have another preacher,
Frank Dietz, he's the Faith United Church of
Christ down there on South College. But
Felice Klein, a very able woman who had a
counseling service in the Berisco building for a
number of years. Now she's down at the Central
Grimes Valley Mental Health. She was a very strong
worker in the community council. Mrs. Topaz
Hughes, Mrs. W. Frank Hughes,
She's a very compassionate woman and she is
actually what equivalent the almoner for the
First Baptist Church downtown. She has a budget of
$500 or so and if she overruns that budget, they
still come up with additional money for her to use
to help people out. Now she comes to my office every
Tuesday and she for 20 years now, she's been
running a clothes closet She has some money. A kid,
a teacher finds a child coming to school
improperly dressed. She writes a note to the
principal, and the principal passes it on to Mrs.
Hughes, and Mrs. Hughes calls the kid in and fits
him up. At the beginning of the year, he has three
pairs of new jeans. He has three sets of shirts and
shorts, and he has a couple of outside shirts. He
can start the school properly dressed, and people
don't. can't tell him from somebody out here on the
know because he's just as well dressed as they are
and she has, this is new stuff, she also has an awful
lot of used material for the children and even for
some of the mothers and for 20 years now she's been
handling this old clothing and the principal will
say such and such kid needs clothing and She said,
go send an auto when in the afternoon at 2 o'clock,
and she measures his feet and fits him up with
sneakers and socks and whatever he needs, sends
him home with a big bundle of clothes. If someone
comes in to you and they need to have the gas turned
on and they can't pay the fee, and then you have Mrs.
Hughes. Mrs. Hughes will pay for it out of her cash
allowance. So she was the first secretary of
Bradley County Community Council. She was a woman
of great compassion and she knows everybody.
She's taken a mother and two little children that
were abandoned into her home or another place she
found a... That's another woman. It was one woman
that she found a place you got special rates in
the... motel
oh yeah we do that regularly we twist on you must be
really quite a kind man by now yeah I don't take
anything at face value he even got an ambulance to
go and get a deathly sick man and bring him around to
the doctor's back door so the doctor could get out
and listen and assigned so he could get to an
institution and be taken care of. His old fellow
was bedridden and his wife was as old as he was and
she wouldn't take care of him and the doctor
wouldn't go 13 miles out in the country to see him
for nothing. He could make $50 while he was going
out in the country, you know. So I said, well, will
you see him if I bring him in? He said, yeah. So I'd
get the ambulance to go out and get him and bring him
to the space behind the doctor's office, you know.
He takes one look at him and he certifies it. He
should be institutionalized and the welfare
takes over and institutionalize them. But he went
to the hospital and he died in about a month. There
was one family that she called up and needed
groceries and it was a Saturday and all the welfare
people take Saturday off of course and so it was up
to Bob and I went along with him to deliver the
grocery and Mr. Island had given him a box that he
could hardly manage to get up onto the porch he came
out and he said that was just a case of real want and
it was the man was lying there and he's little red
spots on his cheeks and he had a can to spit into and I
asked him whether he had any fever and he said a
little and I said it's coming up in the afternoon
before the evening yeah I said just cough much he
said yeah got any medicine he said well I have one
aspirin but I'm saving it and I said there's TB if I
ever saw it so I alerted the TB and and they were real
good about it I said you bring them in you take him to
the doctor and we'll pay for it. So I took him to the
doctor and he got x-rays and he didn't bother
writing a report. He called up and he said, this
man's got it. You better start taking care of him.
From there on, they were real good. They took care
of everything. Got him the clothing. They got him a
lot of clothing and then they went through the
family and the whole family got moved out to
Temple. They all had... Over east of here. I've had
a whole family in a TB sanitarium for a little bit.
But those are things that happen. There is need.
There's a real satisfaction about it too. There is
a great deal of need and there is a need for some
place where people can come and have somebody try
to do something about it. A woman in this morning,
she has kidney trouble. occasional complete
kidney blockage. She has to go to John Seeley
Hospital in Galveston. We sent her down last week
and they gave her some medicine, sent her home and
said come back on the 3rd of July. So we get a charity
rate from the bus company and I got the Salvation
Army to buy her her bus ticket There's a round trip
ticket for $11.10 galveston. So
I arranged that. That's the only thing I did this
morning is arrange that. Of course I am working on
our number four directory now and then the- Well
isn't she the one you usually made long-distance
calls to the hospital so she could get in the last
time she went? Well that was a couple months ago. A
little over a month ago that she had a kidney
stoppage and I called Galveston from the house
here on Saturday afternoon and somebody
furnished her transportation and she got that
right down there and they took her in but then they
turned her loose again. Looks like she's gonna
have to have an operation. They've been fighting
it off.
I guess that's, that tells the story. We did a lot of
traveling and we like, each year we like to do a
little traveling. We were, two years ago we went
down through Africa, went up through Africa
rather, and
last year we were in Hawaii for a couple of weeks. We
just like to haul off and go, but in the meantime we
look after these things are of interest to us. They
have three sons and eleven grandchildren. The
oldest is a mechanical engineer or industrial
engineer with a
command company. They've started out making
helicopters. They don't make many of them. They
make parts for a lot of aviation parts,
subcontracts, aviation parts, and then our
middle son is an electrical engineer, and he works
at Bell in Buffalo, and our third son is a petroleum
engineer, and you'll hold it against me, but he
graduated from the University of Texas. That was
in 1950 though before I came down here, but he's
with the Imperial Oil Company in Alberta in
Canada. Did he ever give you a hard time about
coming here? No, he's, once in a while he says, why
didn't we ever come to, because we tried to do a
pretty good job of investigating all of the
petroleum schools. It was because of Dr. Fancher.
The same Dr. Fancher that I mentioned. He was over
there and Tori and the rest of them. I thought that
that was about as good a school as it was at the time
but I'm convinced now that A&M is a better
petroleum school. Well, thank you.